- Around 800 or so years ago, the majority of the continent was ruled over by the Talus: large beings of stone who were magically and technologically advanced. Opposing them were the Fomorians: powerful Fey creatures who used mysterious magics and ruled with iron fists. A war broke out between them that almost wiped out the mortal races of the world, until both the Talus and the Fomorians mysteriously disappeared.
- The gods exist within the world but more often than not work in a hands off manner, letting their most devoted followers take charge of their duties on the Material Plane.
- Far out into the oceans that surround Caino are mysterious storms that block travel beyond them. Though many voyages have set out to travel beyond them, none have returned, leaving the world beyond Caino’s oceans a mystery.
- The world is largely at peace between countries, save for Belond and Drathar who are at best in a cold war and at worst are on the cusp of conflict. Other countries also maintain rivalries that could grow into something more, but generally they remain at peace. The main threat that concerns most people are the monstrous creatures that roam Caino.
- Magic is very common, with many people being able to perform minor acts of magic or can gain the ability to do so through practice and training.
- Technology in the world is fairly advanced, with electricity being common in cities and trains being the main method of long distance travel. Most ships however remain sailing ships as the great distances they need to cover make the cost of transporting fuel too great.